<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">
<html>
   <head>
      <title>
         VBA Committee Meeting Minutes 5 February 2008
      </title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <div class="Section1">
         <h1>
             VBA Committee Meeting Minutes
         </h1>
         <p>
             5 February 2008
         </p>
         <b>Welcome &amp; apologies</b> 
         <p>
             Present: Dave Wassall (GK RFS), Glenn Foley (JER RFS), Jan Dachs
            (SES)  Steve Saillard (GUN SES), Andrea Bolitho (MAJ SES), Jamie
            Schullhin (MOL RFS), Mark Hallam (BEL SES), Pat Barling (RIV RFS),
            Anthony Williamson (RIV RFS), Steve Angus (SOU RFS), Mike Lonergan
            (SOU RFS), Kevin Jeffrey (SOU RFS), Tim McGuffog (RFS), Ben Bryant
            (JER RFS).
         </p>
         <p>
             Apologies: Ben Morey (RIV SES), Rebecca Noble (RIV SES), Tony
            Graham (SES), Brian Parry (ESA)
         </p>
         <p>
             <b> Minutes of last meeting</b>
         </p>
         <p>
             - <i>Motion to accept the Minutes of AGM held 20<sup>th</sup>
            November 2007.</i>
         </p>
         <p>
             Moved: Dave Wassall
         </p>
         <p>
             Seconded: Glenn Foley
         </p>
         <p>
             Motion carried.
         </p>
         <p>
             <b>Business Arising</b>
         </p>
         Nil. VBA Treasurer vacancy covered at 8(a).<br>
          
         <h3>
             4. President's Report - Pat Barling
         </h3>
         <b>4.1 Volunteer Charter</b><br>
          The Volunteer Charter resulted from the March 2007 protest to
         Minister. This Charter will be with the Minister, not the Department
         so should gain improved ministerial consultation with volunteers. The
         Charter has been drafted by Pat Barling and Rob Gore, in consultation
         with Renee, based on the CFA model. A major aspect of the Charter is
         commitment from the Minister to get volunteer signoff on budget items.
         
         <ul>
            <li>
               Volunteer CFU, SES &amp; RFS feedback on the Charter is
               requested.
            </li>
            <li>
               Pat Barling to send Volunteer Charter to CFUs for feedback
            </li>
            <li>
               Andrea Bolitho to send Volunteer Charter to SES Units for
               feedback
            </li>
            <li>
               Ben Bryant to send Volunteer Charter to RFS Brigades for
               feedback
            </li>
         </ul>
         <b> 4.2 Inquiry into ACT Fire and Emergency Services
         Arrangements</b><br>
          The Standing Committee on Legal Affairs is conducting an inquiry into
         ACT Fire &amp; Emergency Services Arrangements. VBA has the
         opportunity to make a submission, sit at the table and give
         evidence.<br>
          <i>- Pat Barling to undertake VBA submission to inquiry and circulate
         to VBA members for information.</i> 
         <h3>
             5. Treasurer's Report - Pat Barling
         </h3>
         Significant funds are in the bank accounts earning interest. 
         <h3>
             6. SES Report - Jan Dachs
         </h3>
         <b>6.1 SES Update</b> 
         <ul>
            <li>
               November 2007 - 15 SES participated in an air search off the
               Victorian coastline for 1 day.
            </li>
            <li>
               December 2007 - 7 SES units sent to Bankstown as part of
               hailstone taskforce and staging area provided for RFS at Mt
               Clear fire.
            </li>
            <li>
               20 volunteers trained in 2-day staging area course.
            </li>
            <li>
               SES staff held a planning day regarding the business plan and
               goals.
            </li>
         </ul>
         <b>6.2 SES volunteer representation</b><br>
          SES HQ is leading consultation with SES volunteers regarding VBA
         participation and options. All have been invited to participate.
         Response results have been collated and distributed to SES volunteers
         with outcomes expected by April 2008. 
         <p>
             Pat Barling questioned the validity of the consultation results
            with a response rate of only 25% and quite misinformed feedback as
            to the role and activities undertaken by VBA.
         </p>
         <p>
             - Pat Barling offered to meet with every SES Unit on request to
            answer questions on VBA role and actions to ensure SES volunteers
            make an informed choice and that they continue to be adequately
            represented.
         </p>
         <b>6.3 Majura SES relocation</b><br>
          Majura SES relocation to Hackett is being finalised through ACTPLA
         with the move expected to occur in April 2008. 
         <h3>
             7. RFS Report - Tim McGuffog
         </h3>
         <b>7.1 Station relocation assessment</b><br>
          An initial station relocation assessment meeting was held 4 February
         2008. This is basically the same assessment process that was
         undertaken 4 years ago. Generic volunteer points were made for
         consideration in assessment, particularly volunteer sense of ownership
         of stations and sourcing of brigade volunteers from local community
         suburbs critical. 
         <p>
             The assessment has identified opportunities for fire brigade and
            ambulance cohabitation. All services have identified they need
            their own space, citing the Gunghalin experiment failure with
            sharing of common resources such as kitchens. A survey was sent out
            5 February 2008 to Fire Brigade seeking their feedback.
         </p>
         <p>
             Jan Dachs commented that SES is discussing virtues and costs of
            possible relocation and consolidation during assessment site
            visits.
         </p>
         <b>7.2 RFS update</b><br>
          
         <ul>
            <li>
               3 vacant RFS positions have been filled temporarily with duty
               statements to be reviewed before advertising.
            </li>
            <li>
               There are many issues with stores supplying gear that are being
               addressed.
            </li>
            <li>
               A consultant has been selected to review the business plan.
            </li>
            <li>
               RFS staff to brief Minister on Volunteer Charter.
            </li>
            <li>
               Budget secured for instant management team training and
               confirmation expected on driver training soon.
            </li>
            <li>
               RFS has noted and is also subject to the issue regarding lack of
               work cover traveling to and from the workplace.
            </li>
            <li>
               The Commissioner has asked RFS to investigate purchase of an
               education tent for RFS like SES tent. VBA commented that this
               would be a waste given the Firewise (now farm firewise) trailer
               already exists for educational purposes.
            </li>
         </ul>
         <b> 7.3 NSW RFS Information Awareness Conference</b><br>
          The NSW RFS Information Awareness Conference is being held in
         Newcastle in May 2008. RFS can sponsor a delegate to attend as per
         Dave Wassall and Simon Butt in past years. 
         <ul>
            <li>
               Tim McGuffog to forward invitation for delegate sponsorship to
               VBA
            </li>
            <li>
               Any RFS volunteer interested in attending as VBA Conference
               delegate to contact Pat Barling.
            </li>
         </ul>
         <h3>
             8. General business
         </h3>
         <b>a. VBA Treasurer resignation [see Attachment 8 (a)]</b><br>
          Simon Butt resigned and VBA is seeking a new Treasurer. <i>- Andrea
         Bolitho is to follow up potential nomination from Bec Noble of Rivers
         SES.</i> 
         <p>
             In his resignation letter, Simon recommended the withdrawal of
            Gunghalin RFS from the VBA. Pat reported that the Brigade Captain,
            John Jenkins, had indicated that the Brigade would retain its
            membership however the Brigade is not in agreement with this
            recommendation. Mike Lonergan commented that Pat Barling represents
            VBA very well as President.
         </p>
         <p>
             Motion of confidence in Pat Barling as VBA Presdient.<br>
             Moved: Mike Lonergan<br>
             Seconded: Steve Angus<br>
             Motion Carried.
         </p>
         <b>b. Work cover [see Attachment 8 (b)]</b><br>
          
         <p>
             Pat Barling thanked Anthony Williamson for drafting the letter to
            the Minister regarding lack of work cover for volunteers traveling
            to and from sheds, sometimes in extreme weather conditions. One
            volunteer has already resigned due to this issue. Quick resolution
            of this issue is required for all volunteers.
         </p>
         <i>- Pat Barling will raise this issue with the Minister when meeting
         with him 11 February 2008.</i> c. Canberra Show<br>
          
         <p>
             The Media Working Group decision to participate in the Home &amp;
            Leisure Show rather than Canberra Show is definite. Volunteers are
            disappointed at not being consulted on this decision.
         </p>
         <i>- Pat Barling will discuss this issue and the lack of volunteer
         consultation at his next meeting with the Minister on 11 February</i> 
         <p>
             Steve Angus suggests that in future VBA could approach the Royal
            Canberra Show Society directly to possibly source a discounted
            RFS-SES stand (usually $100+/m2). This is only worthwhile if
            volunteers are able to support stands. RFS brigades confirm
            support.
         </p>
         <i>- SES units to feedback whether volunteers are able to support
         future stands at the Canberra Show.</i><br>
          <b>d. Australasian Fire Authorities Council submission for Federal
         Budget [see Attachment 8 (d)]</b><br>
          The response deadline has expired. <i>- Ben Bryant to set up reminder
         for consideration at end of 2008</i><br>
          <b>e. Bushfire Council Report - Kevin Jeffrey</b><br>
          
         <ul>
            <li>
               Bushfire Council had frank meeting with Commissioner, raising
               the issue of the delay in releasing meeting minutes due to the
               requirement for publishing approval for the ESA website standing
               up to him about non-compliance with Act where release of minutes
               is being delayed by publishing approval requirements for the ESA
               website. Bushfire Council is looking at options such as their
               own website.
            </li>
            <li>
               Bushfire Council positions are available and expressions of
               interest are being sought.
            </li>
            <li>
               Council looking at Inquiry issues.
            </li>
            <li>
               Council discussed pushing information up the line about bushfire
               effect on water yield to inform the water authority debate.
            </li>
            <li>
               Council is questioned bushfire readiness assessment.
            </li>
            <li>
               Council questioned Commissioner Report which apparently has ROAG
               agreement with his position.
            </li>
            <li>
               Council questioned Commissioner's decision regarding AFSM
               nomination, which is outside the fire area. The ACT is entitled
               to 2 positions on the AFSM - 1 RFS, 1 Fire Brigade.
            </li>
         </ul>
         <i>- Pat to discuss the AFSM nomination issue with his meeting with
         the Minister.</i><br>
          <b>f. Field Day</b><br>
          
         <p>
             Pat Barling raised that the Field Day was forgotten in 2007 and
            has requested Molonglo consider undertaking the Field Day in 2008.
         </p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               Molonglo RFS / SES consider undertaking the 2008 Field Day
            </li>
            <li>
               Tim McGuffog to email Ben Bryant Queensland layout design for
               their field day
            </li>
         </ul>
         <b>g. Emergency Management Australia grants</b><br>
          
         <p>
             SES and RFS have already sent in grant applications for Emergency
            Management Australia's National Volunteer Emergency Support Fund
            and remind Brigades/Units that applications are due 5pm Friday 7th
            March 2008.
         </p>
         <i>- Ben Bryant to email out grant closing date reminder to VBA
         delegates.</i> 
         <h3>
             9. Next meeting
         </h3>
         Next meeting to be held at Molonglo Shed. <i>- Ben Bryant to arrange
         meeting date and time with Pat Barling and Jamie Schulhin.</i>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>

